# Dark-and-Light-IV-Characteristic-Curves-of-the-Solar-Module-
Photovoltaic cells are used in solar modules for the process of converting light into electricity. This process utilizes the light’s photon that hits the solar cell’s semiconductive material to knock an electron free from the p-n junction. To maximize the output of this process, there are several considerations that must be analyzed. The purpose of this lab is to take these considerations and measure the total output current in relation to the light intensity, distance, and the angle of incidence of the light source. 

To begin, the dark IV characteristic curve of the solar module must be analyzed. This tests the properties of the solar module when voltage is applied to it with no light source. By incrementing the power supply from 0-2.5v, the current could be measured after 0.5v was applied. The light IV characteristic curve is measured using a light source on the solar module, as opposed to a power supply, while incrementing a potentiometer that acts as a load. In this lab, 30cm away a 300W light bulb was positioned directly above the solar panel to act as the circuit’s light source.  With the potentiometer incrementing from 0Ω to about 100Ω, the voltage and current variations can be observed to show the impact a load will have with its current draw that’s being generated by the solar panel.

While these tests help identify the properties of the solar module itself, in practice, the sun shifts throughout the sky causing the angle of the light source to vary over time. By measuring the current output of the solar modules at different angles angles and distances, real world applications are capable of gaining the maximum power given their parameters. In this application, the current was measured after incrementing the solar panel by tilting it to the right every 10° up to 90° and then the left tilt was observed. From 0°-30° the most current was generated and a significant decrease of photocurrent was observed every increment afterwards. Next, with the source directly above the panel the current was measured with the light at different distances ranging from 50cm-150cm. As the light moved further away, a decreased amount of photocurrent was generated from the solar panel. 
